It is as high as the heavens.
It fills the earth.
It is extended to a thousand generations, and it endures forever.
What is it?
It is one of Jehovah's most beautiful qualities, his loyal love.
Now what is loyal love?
Now one of our publications says this.
Loyal love defies a concise definition in many languages, and I'd like to say English
is one of them.
Trying to find a concise definition is not easy, but I'll take a stab at it.
The glossary of Bible terms in the New World translation says this.
Loyal love refers to love motivated by commitment, integrity, loyalty, and deep attachment.
Another reference says this.
It is kindness that lovingly attaches itself to persons becoming evident in continual
kind actions.
Did you get that?
Being evident in continual kind actions.
But perhaps the best reference that I found was the one that said this.
The best way to grasp the essence of the biblical expression loyal love is by studying how God
treated his true worshipers down through the ages.
Isn't that true?
When we think about how Jehovah protected and fed the Israelites when they were in the
wilderness for 40 years, when he brought them into the promised land, he gave them judges
to rescue them from their enemies.
He gave them prophets to rescue them and bring them back when they got involved in false
worship.
And because Jehovah stuck with them in good times and in the very most difficult of times,
Jehovah could say this to the nation.
Let's read it.
Jeremiah, chapter 31, and verse 3.
About midway down the verse, Jehovah says, I have loved you with an everlasting love.
That is why I have drawn you to me with loyal love.
Well that is so true.
We are drawn to Jehovah because of his loyal love for us.
We can trust it.
We can rely on it in good times and in the very most difficult of times in our lives.
We are always living in expectation of Jehovah's loyal love that he manifests in his continual
kind act toward each of us.
Brothers, don't we love Jehovah's loyal love?
Well, while we can never equal Jehovah in showing loyal love, the Scriptures do show that
this is a quality that we as humans must display toward others.
Now let's read together what it says in Proverbs, chapter 3, Proverbs, chapter 3, and verse
3.
It says, do not let loyal love and faithfulness leave you.
Tie them around your neck.
Write them on the tablet of your heart.
So what do you learn from that?
We are expected by Jehovah to display loyal love.
But how do we as humans display loyal love to other people?
Well just as Jehovah's loyal love causes him to attach himself to us with commitment and
loyalty, well, we want to attach ourselves, others to others, not simply with warm and
fuzzy feelings, but with continual, enduring, steadfast acts of kindness that demonstrate
our loyal love.
Now why is this an important topic for all of you who are graduating today?
So let's consider three reasons.
Here's the first.
You have all been recipients of loyal love from others.
Now how did you get here to Gilead?
Now I don't mean how did you get here to the auditorium this morning.
But how is it that you got to this point in your life that today you are graduating from
the Gilead school?
It's good for all of you to pause now and reflect on that question.
Who were the people that loved you?
Who were the people that helped you so that you could be here today, graduated?
Who stood by you in good times and in bad times?
Maybe some of you think of your dear parents, some of whom might be here today in the audience.
If you are, this is a happy day, right, I don't need to ask.
Maybe it was the brother or sister who studied the Bible with you.
Maybe it was the circuit overseer who encouraged you when you were young or that older sister
in the congregation that believed in you and encouraged you to pioneer or to put in
your application for Bethel.
Well today is a day for you to look through the photo album of your heart and consider
all of the people that have shown loyal love to you and have encouraged you all along the
way and then to be like Jehovah and show loyal love to them.
Maybe write them a card, send them a letter or an email.
Maybe a text message or a gift.
You see some kind act to maintain that bond of loyal love between you.
And how are you benefited by doing so?
Well among other things, it helps to keep you humble and modest, always remembering that
the things that you have achieved thus far and whatever you may achieve in the future
is not solely due to your efforts but in large part due to the loyal love that you have
experienced from Jehovah and from so many other loyal friends.
And never underestimate the power of a simple act of loyal love.
You know one day I suddenly began to think about a couple who had helped us so much during
the court cases in Moscow.
I decided them to just send them a brief text message just to see how they were doing
to check on them, let them know I was thinking about them.
And just a few minutes later a text came back, brother Mark, we can't believe you wrote
to us right now.
We were both on our knees praying to Jehovah, begging him for some encouragement.
And suddenly we heard ding on our phone.
Prove yourselves to be like your Heavenly Father by demonstrating loyal love to all of
the people that have loved you and who have helped you to be sitting in these front rows
of this auditorium today.
Here's a second, in your assignments you brothers who are graduating are going to
serve in one sense or another as overseers.
Now always demonstrate loyal love to the brothers and sisters that you're going to oversee
and care for.
Now that sounds like a very obvious statement doesn't it?
And yet for us as humans it can be challenging.
Well why so?
Well as we've discussed when it comes to humans loyal love involves a bond between two
people and the continual kind deeds that occur between them that create this lasting bond.
But now here's the challenge.
You see as imperfect humans we may be very quick to form a bond with people that we feel
a connection with, people who have similar abilities, similar talents, similar interests.
If you work in the service department you're drawn to the circuit overseers, the missionaries,
the special pioneers, the desksmen, they're all wonderful.
If you're a translator, oh you love the translators, that brother helped translate the Bible.
My, right?
So you just love them, can't get enough of them.
If you work in the legal department you even love the lawyers.
Oh, sorry we all love the lawyers, sorry we love you all.
And so on and so on.
You see, we all love those wonderful, capable people that we easily admire and look up to.
But here's a question.
What about all the faithful people?
What about all the faithful servants of Jehovah that we just don't have that immediate
connection with?
Let me be far more clear.
What about all the faithful people that are just plain annoying?
You know who you are?
All the won't take your phone calls.
Well, what are we going to do with all of those people?
Well we have an answer because just to be quite frank with you, the Bible is filled with
annoying people.
Now we all love Abraham, right?
We all love Abraham.
But now if you go to Genesis chapter 18, we're not going to read all of this, but I'm just
going to remind you of this account that you know well, Genesis 18.
And you know, we go down here and we hear Abraham praying to Jehovah, it begins about
verse 24 and Abraham begins to go into this thing with Jehovah.
Jehovah, what if there's 50, see?
What if there's 45?
What if there's 40?
What if there's 30?
What if there's 20?
What if there's 10?
That's annoying.
That's just annoying, sorry.
But now what did Jehovah do with that man who was a bit annoying?
He loved him.
He loyally stuck by him.
And although Abraham had been dead for more than a thousand years, he continued to call
him Abraham, my friend.
That's real loyal love.
What about Peter?
Peter could be very annoying.
Now think about just one occasion, Matthew chapter 17, Matthew 17.
Now here is Jesus, and it's the occasion of the transfiguration.
This is a miraculous event, right?
So here Peter is watching, as Jesus is being transfigured, and he sees him speaking with
Moses and Elijah.
What an event, right?
Wouldn't it be exciting to see this, this supernatural event?
And what does Peter say?
Hey, let's put up tents, and we can go camping.
That is annoying.
That is annoying, but it doesn't end there.
Of course, Peter went on to deny Jesus three times.
That's annoying.
But what did Jesus do with that man who could be so annoying?
He gave him the keys of the kingdom.
He entrusted him with great responsibility.
He showed true loyal love to that annoying man.
So what's the point?
As you work as overseers and you deal with your brothers and sisters, even the annoying
ones, remember the principle, the simple principle that Jesus stated at Luke chapter 6.
Will you read it with me?
Let's read it.
Luke chapter 6 verse 32, if you love those loving you of what credit is it to you, for
even the sinners love those loving them, and if you do good to those doing good to
you, of what credit is it to you, even the sinners do the same.
So demonstrate loyal love, not just to those who you feel that immediate connection with,
but to all the faithful ones that you will oversee and care for, work to form a bond
of love even with the annoying ones.
And here's the third, people in your assignments need your loyal love.
You see the stated purpose of Gilead is to train men and women who can strengthen and
stabilize God's people.
Well now who are those people?
Who are they?
They're simple, humble, faithful men and women who are just trying their best to serve
Jehovah.
Some are widows, some are orphans, some are elderly, others are victims of natural disasters
and calamities of every sort.
Some are facing devastating diseases while others are imprisoned for their faith.
All of these people need for you to loyally attach yourself to them, to reassure them of
your love through your continual kind deeds.
Well to do so is going to require more than just warm feelings.
It's going to take your time.
It's going to take your emotional energy.
But this is what Jehovah instructs us to do at Zechariah chapter 7 and verse 9.
Can you read it with me?
Zechariah chapter 7 and verse 9.
It says, this is what Jehovah of armies says, judge with true justice and deal with one
another in loyal love and mercy.
So Jehovah instructs us to deal with one another in loyal love, showing loyal love for your
brothers and sisters who are struggling, who are suffering, will show that you really
got the point of your Gilead training and that you are in your assignments to strengthen
and to stabilize, to loyally love and support your brothers and sisters.
Remember, remember, they need, they need your loyal love.
So what have we learned in this discussion?
Loyal love is one of the most beautiful qualities of our amazing God, Jehovah.
But Jehovah also expects that we are going to display loyal love to one another.
That we will go through the photo album of our heart and remember those who have displayed
loyal love to us.
But we will loyally love all of those under our oversight, even the annoying ones, and
that we will reach out with loyal love to those who are suffering and who most need our
kindness and attention.
Well, if you work hard in these ways to display loyal love, what can all of you who are graduating
today expect?
We know that you will be deeply loved by our Heavenly Father, Jehovah, but also by
all your brothers and sisters that you are going to serve.
And how do we know this?
Well, it's because of something the Bible says here in Proverbs 19 and verse 22.
Proverbs 19 verse 22 says, the desirable thing in a man is his loyal love.
So may the blessing of Jehovah go with all of you wherever you go, and may you never
forget that the desirable thing in a man is his loyal love.